[Doc] Update math module (#6203)
taichi-dev/taichi: docs/lang/articles/math/math_module.md

Taichi provides a built-in `math` module that supports frequently used mathematical functions and utility functions, including:

- Commonly-used mathematical functions that are analogous to those in Python's built-in `math` module.
- Small vector and matrix types that are analogous to those in the [OpenGL shading language](https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/OpenGL_Shading_Language) (GLSL).
- Some GLSL-standard functions.

> - Complex number operations of 2D vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Complex number operations in the form of 2D vectors.
```

Taichi provides a built-in `math` module that supports frequently used mathematical functions and utility functions, including:

+ Commonly-used mathematical functions that are analogous to those in Python's built-in `math` module.
+ Small vector and matrix types that are analogous to those in the [OpenGL shading language](https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/OpenGL_Shading_Language) (GLSL).
+ Some GLSL-standard functions.
+ Complex number operations of 2D vectors.

## Mathematical functions

> You should call the mathematical functions provided by Taichi's `math` module from within the Taichi scope. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must call the mathematical functions provided by Taichi's `math` module from within the Taichi scope. For example:
```
Style thing: use "must" for "should"

> You should call the mathematical functions supported by Taichi's `math` module from within the Taichi scope. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should call the mathematical functions provided by Taichi's `math` module from within the Taichi scope. For example:
```

    ...
```

> These functions also accept vectors and matrices as arguments and conduct element-wise operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These functions also take vectors and matrices as arguments and operate on them element-wise:
```
"take xxx as arguments" fixed usage.

:::note

> Taichi's math module has a large overlap with Python's built-in math module. But you should follow a few extra fules when using Taichi's math module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taichi's math module has a large overlap with Python's built-in math module. But you should follow a few extra rules when using Taichi's math module:
```

> Taichi's math module has a large overlap with Python's built-in math module. But you should follow a few extra rules when using Taichi's math module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taichi's math module overlaps to a large extent with Python's built-in math module. Ensure that you follow a few extra rules when using Taichi's math module:
```

Reviewer: Remember the noun form is ALWAYS wordier than the original verb form.

> + Functions in Taichi's math module *must* be called from within the Taichi scope.

Reviewer: Active voice. Use active voice as much as possible. 

```suggestion
- You must call the functions provided by Taichi's math moduled from within the Taichi scope.
```
use "-" for bullet. Please update the entire document.

> - You must call the functions provided by Taichi's math moduled from within the Taichi scope.

Reviewer: moduled?

> + Functions in Taichi's math module also accept vectors or matrices as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Functions in Taichi's math module also take vectors or matrices as arguments.
```

> + Functions in Taichi's math module also accept vectors and matrices as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Functions in Taichi's math module also accept vectors or matrices as arguments.
```

> - Functions in Taichi's math module also accept vectors or matrices as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Functions in Taichi's math module also take vectors or matrices as arguments.
```

> + The precision of a function in Taichi's math module depends on the value of `default_fp` and the backend specified in the `ti.init()` method call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The precision of a function in Taichi's math module depends on the value of `default_fp` and the backend specified in `ti.init()`.
```

> - The precision of a function in Taichi's math module depends on the value of `default_fp` and the backend specified in the `ti.init()` method call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The precision of a function in Taichi's math module depends on the settings of `default_fp` and `arch` (backend) in `ti.init()`.
```

:::

## Small vector and matrix types

Taichi's math module provides a few small vector and matrix types:

> - `vec2/vec3/vec4` for 2D/3D/4D floating-point vector types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `vec2/vec3/vec4`: 2D/3D/4D floating-point vector types.
```
Same for the other three.

- `ivec2/ivec3/ivec4` for 2D/3D/4D integer vector types.
- `uvec2/uvec3/uvec4` for 2D/3D/4D unsigned integer vector types.
- `mat2/mat3/mat4` for 2D/3D/4D floating-point square matrix types.

> To create one of the vector/matrix types above, use template function `ti.types.vector()` or `ti.types.matrix()`. For example, `vec2` is defined as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create one of the vector/matrix types above, use template function `ti.types.vector()` or `ti.types.matrix()`. For example, `vec2` is defined as follows:
```
Do you know why I omit "the" here? Because it's not definite.

> To create one of the vector/matrix types above, use the template `ti.types.vector()` or `ti.types.matrix()`. For example, `vec2` is defined in the following way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create one of the vector/matrix types above, use template function `ti.types.vector()` or `ti.types.matrix()`. For example, `vec2` is defined as follows:
```

```python
vec2 = ti.types.vector(2, float)
```

> The number of precision bits of such a type is determined by `default_fp` or `default_ip` in the `ti.init()` method call. For example, if `ti.init(default_fp=ti.f64)` is called, then `vec2/vec3/vec4` and `mat2/mat3/mat4` defined in the Taichi scope all have 64-bit floating-point precision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of precision bits of such a type is determined by `default_fp` or `default_ip` in the `ti.init()` method call. For example, if `ti.init(default_fp=ti.f64)` is called, then `vec2/vec3/vec4` and `mat2/mat3/mat4` defined in the Taichi scope all have a 64-bit floating-point precision.
```

> You can use these types to instantiate vectors/matrices or annotate the data types of function arguments and struct members. See the [Type System](../type_system/type.md) for more information. Note that flexible initialization rules apply:

Reviewer 2: It should mean there are various ways to instantiate a vector. Very flexible.

> You can use these types to instantiate vectors/matrices or annotate the data types of function arguments and struct members. See the [Type System](../type_system/type.md) for more information. Here we emphasize that they have very flexible initialization routines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use these types to instantiate vectors/matrices or annotate data types for function arguments and struct members. See the [Type System](../type_system/type.md) for more information. Here we emphasize that they have very flexible initialization routines:
```

u = vec4(v, 4.0)
```

> Similar to GLSL vectors, the vector types created by `ti.types.vector()` also support **vector swizzling**. This means you can use `xyzw`, `rgba`, or `stpq` to access their elements with no more than four indices:

Reviewer: If you use "similar" then "also" is redundant. This means -> This means that: Use that to lead an appositive clause. 

Please use the origin. I edited this line before.

u = v.rraa  # vec4(1, 1, 2, 2)
```

### Relations between `ti.Vector`, `ti.types.vector` and `ti.math.vec3`

+ `ti.Vector` is a function that accepts a 1D array and returns a matrix instance that has only one column. For example, `ti.Vector([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])`.

> + `ti.types.vector` is a function that accepts an integer and a primitive type and returns a vector type. For example: `vec5f = ti.types.vector(5, float)`. `vec5f` can then be used to instantiate 5D vectors or annotate data types of function arguments and struct members:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ `ti.types.vector()` is a function that accepts an integer and a primitive type and returns a vector type. For example: `vec5f = ti.types.vector(5, float)`. You can then use `vec5f` to instantiate a 5D vector or annotate data types for function arguments and struct members:
```
The best-darn edit in this line is to change the preposition "of" to "for". Brrrrrrrrrravo!!

u = v.rraa  # vec4(1, 1, 2, 2)
```

> ### Differentiate `ti.Vector`, `ti.types.vector` and `ti.math.vec3`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Relations between `ti.Vector`, `ti.types.vector` and `ti.math.vec3`
```
Differentiate is not the right word.

+ `ti.Vector` is a function that accepts a 1D array and returns a matrix instance that has only one column. For example, `ti.Vector([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])`.
+ `ti.types.vector` is a function that accepts an integer and a primitive type and returns a vector type. For example: `vec5f = ti.types.vector(5, float)`. `vec5f` can then be used to instantiate 5D vectors or annotate data types of function arguments and struct members:

    ```python
    @ti.kernel
    def test(v: vec5f):
        print(v.xyz)
    ```

>     Unlike `ti.Vector`, whose input data must be a 1D array, `ti.types.vector()` creates vector types that allow more flexible initiation rules, as explained above.

Reviewer: The original is grammatically correct. Please could I ask you to revert this change?

+ `ti.math.vec3` is created by `vec3 = ti.types.vector(3, float)`.

## GLSL-standard functions

> Taichi's math module also supports a few [GLSL standard functions](https://registry.khronos.org/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/index.php). These functions follow the GLSL standard, except that they accept arbitrary vectors and matrices as arguments and perform element-wise operations. For example:

Reviewer: The original is good. Could I ask you to use the original?
Your version is unclear because it didn't specify the target of these operations: The matrices and vectors.

## Complex number operations

> Taichi's math module also supports basic complex number operations via 2D vectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Taichi's math module also supports basic complex arithmetic operations on 2D vectors.
```
"via" is incorrect.

> You can use a 2D vector of type `ti.math.vec2` to represent a complex number. In this way, additions and subtractions of complex numbers come in the form of 2D vector additions and subtractions. You can call  `ti.math.cmul()` and `ti.math.cdiv()` to conduct multiplication and division of complex numbers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a 2D vector of type `ti.math.vec2` to represent a complex number. In this way, additions and subtractions of complex numbers come in the form of 2D vector additions and subtractions. You can call `ti.math.cmul()` and `ti.math.cdiv()` to conduct multiplication and division of complex numbers:
```

> You can use a 2D vector of type `ti.math.vec2` to represent a complex number. In this way, the addition and subtraction of complex numbers are equivalent to the addtion and subtraction of 2D vectors, and the multiplication and division of complex numbers can be performed by calling `ti.math.cmul` and `ti.math.cdiv`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a 2D vector of type `ti.math.vec2` to represent a complex number. In this way, additions and subtractions of complex numbers come in the form of 2D vector additions and subtractions. You can call  `ti.math.cmul()` and `ti.math.cdiv()` to conduct multiplication and division of complex numbers:
```
The second "addtion" is incorrect.

    w = tm.cdiv(x, y)  #  vec2(2, 0) = 2+0j
```

> You can also compute the power, logarithm and exponential of a complex number:

Reviewer: a, b, and c
```suggestion
You can also compute the power, logarithm, and exponential of a complex number:
```
